README.md, before:

# 📫 Himalaya

Vim plugin for email management based on the
[himalaya-cli](https://github.com/soywod/himalaya).

## Installation

First you need to install and configure the [himalaya
CLI](https://github.com/soywod/himalaya#installation). Then you can
install this plugin with your favorite plugin manager:

### Using [packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)

```lua
use "https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim"
```

```vim
:PackerSync
```

### Using [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)

```vim
Plug 'https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim'
```

```vim
:PlugInstall
```

## Configuration

It is highly recommanded to have those Vim options on:

```vim
syntax on
filetype plugin on
set hidden
```

### `g:himalaya_folder_picker`

Defines the provider used for selecting folders (default keybind:
`gm`):

- `native` (default): a vim native input
- `fzf`: https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim
- `telescope`: https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim

If no value given, the first loaded (and available) provider will be
used (telescope > fzf > native).

```vim
let g:himalaya_folder_picker = 'native' | 'fzf' | 'telescope'
```

### `g:himalaya_folder_picker_telescope_preview`

Enables folder preview when picking a folder with the `telescope.nvim`
provider.

```vim
let g:himalaya_folder_picker_telescope_preview = 1
```

### `g:himalaya_complete_contact_cmd`

Defines the command to use for contact completion. When this is set,
`completefunc` will be set when composing emails so that contacts can
be completed with `<C-x><C-u>`.

The command must print each possible result on its own line. Each line
must contain tab-separated fields; the first must be the email
address, and the second, if present, must be the name. `%s` in the
command will be replaced with the search query.

```vim
let g:himalaya_complete_contact_cmd = '<your completion command>'
```

## Usage

### Folder listing

With the native picker (default):

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631817-51eb3180-966a-11eb-8b13-cd1f1f2539ab.jpeg)

With the
[telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim)
picker:

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631294-86122280-9669-11eb-8074-1c43c36b65a9.jpeg)

With the [fzf.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim) picker:

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631382-acd05900-9669-11eb-817d-c28fd5d9574c.jpeg)

### Emails listing

```vim
:Himalaya
```

| Function                                         | Keybind   |
|--------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Change the current folder                        | `gm`      |
| Show previous page                               | `gp`      |
| Show next page                                   | `gn`      |
| Read email under cursor                          | `<Enter>` |
| Write a new email                                | `gw`      |
| Reply to the email under cursor                  | `gr`      |
| Reply all to the email under cursor              | `gR`      |
| Forward the email under cursor                   | `gf`      |
| Download all attachments of email under cursor   | `ga`      |
| Copy the email under cursor                      | `gC`      |
| Move the email under cursor                      | `gM`      |
| Delete email(s) under cursor or visual selection | `gD`      |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap gm   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select)
nmap gp   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select-previous-page)
nmap gn   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select-next-page)
nmap <cr> <plug>(himalaya-email-read)
nmap gw   <plug>(himalaya-email-write)
nmap gr   <plug>(himalaya-email-reply)
nmap gR   <plug>(himalaya-email-reply-all)
nmap gf   <plug>(himalaya-email-forward)
nmap ga   <plug>(himalaya-email-download-attachments)
nmap gC   <plug>(himalaya-email-copy)
nmap gM   <plug>(himalaya-email-move)
nmap gD   <plug>(himalaya-email-delete)
```

### Email reading

| Function                       | Keybind |
|--------------------------------|---------|
| Write a new email              | `gw`    |
| Reply to the email             | `gr`    |
| Reply all to the email         | `gR`    |
| Forward the email              | `gf`    |
| Download all email attachments | `ga`    |
| Copy the email                 | `gC`    |
| Move the email                 | `gM`    |
| Delete the email               | `gD`    |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap gw <plug>(himalaya-email-write)
nmap gr <plug>(himalaya-email-reply)
nmap gR <plug>(himalaya-email-reply-all)
nmap gf <plug>(himalaya-email-forward)
nmap ga <plug>(himalaya-email-download-attachments)
nmap gC <plug>(himalaya-email-copy)
nmap gM <plug>(himalaya-email-move)
nmap gD <plug>(himalaya-email-delete)
```

### Email writing

| Function       | Keybind |
|----------------|---------|
| Add attachment | `ga`    |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap ga <plug>(himalaya-email-add-attachment)
```

When you exit this special buffer, you will be prompted 4 choices:

- `send`: sends the email
- `draft`: saves the email locally
- `quit`: quits the buffer without saving
- `cancel`: goes back to the email edition

## Development

The development environment is managed by
[Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html). Running `nix-shell` will spawn
a shell with everything you need to get started with this plugin:

```sh
# starts a nix shell
$ nix-shell

# starts Vim and the :Himalaya command
$ vim +Himalaya

# starts Neovim and the :Himalaya command
$ nvim +Himalaya
```

## Contributing

If you find a bug, feel free to open an issue at
[https://todo.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim](https://todo.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim).

If you have a feature in mind, feel free to send a patchset at
https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim/send-email or using the command
`git send-email`.

## Sponsoring

[![github](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub%20Sponsors-fafbfc?logo=GitHub%20Sponsors&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/sponsors/soywod)
[![paypal](https://img.shields.io/badge/-PayPal-0079c1?logo=PayPal&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square)](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/soywod)
[![ko-fi](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Ko--fi-ff5e5a?logo=Ko-fi&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square)](https://ko-fi.com/soywod)
[![buy-me-a-coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Buy%20Me%20a%20Coffee-ffdd00?logo=Buy%20Me%20A%20Coffee&logoColor=000000&style=flat-square)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/soywod)
[![liberapay](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Liberapay-f6c915?logo=Liberapay&logoColor=222222&style=flat-square)](https://liberapay.com/soywod)

Commit message:

add nlnet logo in readme

README.md, after:

# 📫 Himalaya

Vim plugin for email management based on the
[himalaya-cli](https://github.com/soywod/himalaya).

## Installation

First you need to install and configure the [himalaya
CLI](https://github.com/soywod/himalaya#installation). Then you can
install this plugin with your favorite plugin manager:

### Using [packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)

```lua
use "https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim"
```

```vim
:PackerSync
```

### Using [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)

```vim
Plug 'https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim'
```

```vim
:PlugInstall
```

## Configuration

It is highly recommanded to have those Vim options on:

```vim
syntax on
filetype plugin on
set hidden
```

### `g:himalaya_folder_picker`

Defines the provider used for selecting folders (default keybind:
`gm`):

- `native` (default): a vim native input
- `fzf`: https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim
- `telescope`: https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim

If no value given, the first loaded (and available) provider will be
used (telescope > fzf > native).

```vim
let g:himalaya_folder_picker = 'native' | 'fzf' | 'telescope'
```

### `g:himalaya_folder_picker_telescope_preview`

Enables folder preview when picking a folder with the `telescope.nvim`
provider.

```vim
let g:himalaya_folder_picker_telescope_preview = 1
```

### `g:himalaya_complete_contact_cmd`

Defines the command to use for contact completion. When this is set,
`completefunc` will be set when composing emails so that contacts can
be completed with `<C-x><C-u>`.

The command must print each possible result on its own line. Each line
must contain tab-separated fields; the first must be the email
address, and the second, if present, must be the name. `%s` in the
command will be replaced with the search query.

```vim
let g:himalaya_complete_contact_cmd = '<your completion command>'
```

## Usage

### Folder listing

With the native picker (default):

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631817-51eb3180-966a-11eb-8b13-cd1f1f2539ab.jpeg)

With the
[telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim)
picker:

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631294-86122280-9669-11eb-8074-1c43c36b65a9.jpeg)

With the [fzf.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim) picker:

![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10437171/113631382-acd05900-9669-11eb-817d-c28fd5d9574c.jpeg)

### Emails listing

```vim
:Himalaya
```

| Function                                         | Keybind   |
|--------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Change the current folder                        | `gm`      |
| Show previous page                               | `gp`      |
| Show next page                                   | `gn`      |
| Read email under cursor                          | `<Enter>` |
| Write a new email                                | `gw`      |
| Reply to the email under cursor                  | `gr`      |
| Reply all to the email under cursor              | `gR`      |
| Forward the email under cursor                   | `gf`      |
| Download all attachments of email under cursor   | `ga`      |
| Copy the email under cursor                      | `gC`      |
| Move the email under cursor                      | `gM`      |
| Delete email(s) under cursor or visual selection | `gD`      |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap gm   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select)
nmap gp   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select-previous-page)
nmap gn   <plug>(himalaya-folder-select-next-page)
nmap <cr> <plug>(himalaya-email-read)
nmap gw   <plug>(himalaya-email-write)
nmap gr   <plug>(himalaya-email-reply)
nmap gR   <plug>(himalaya-email-reply-all)
nmap gf   <plug>(himalaya-email-forward)
nmap ga   <plug>(himalaya-email-download-attachments)
nmap gC   <plug>(himalaya-email-copy)
nmap gM   <plug>(himalaya-email-move)
nmap gD   <plug>(himalaya-email-delete)
```

### Email reading

| Function                       | Keybind |
|--------------------------------|---------|
| Write a new email              | `gw`    |
| Reply to the email             | `gr`    |
| Reply all to the email         | `gR`    |
| Forward the email              | `gf`    |
| Download all email attachments | `ga`    |
| Copy the email                 | `gC`    |
| Move the email                 | `gM`    |
| Delete the email               | `gD`    |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap gw <plug>(himalaya-email-write)
nmap gr <plug>(himalaya-email-reply)
nmap gR <plug>(himalaya-email-reply-all)
nmap gf <plug>(himalaya-email-forward)
nmap ga <plug>(himalaya-email-download-attachments)
nmap gC <plug>(himalaya-email-copy)
nmap gM <plug>(himalaya-email-move)
nmap gD <plug>(himalaya-email-delete)
```

### Email writing

| Function       | Keybind |
|----------------|---------|
| Add attachment | `ga`    |

Keybinds can be customized:

```vim
nmap ga <plug>(himalaya-email-add-attachment)
```

When you exit this special buffer, you will be prompted 4 choices:

- `send`: sends the email
- `draft`: saves the email locally
- `quit`: quits the buffer without saving
- `cancel`: goes back to the email edition

## Development

The development environment is managed by
[Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html). Running `nix-shell` will spawn
a shell with everything you need to get started with this plugin:

```sh
# starts a nix shell
$ nix-shell

# starts Vim and the :Himalaya command
$ vim +Himalaya

# starts Neovim and the :Himalaya command
$ nvim +Himalaya
```

## Contributing

If you find a bug, feel free to open an issue at
[https://todo.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim](https://todo.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim).

If you have a feature in mind, feel free to send a patchset at
https://git.sr.ht/~soywod/himalaya-vim/send-email or using the command
`git send-email`.

## Credits

[![nlnet](https://nlnet.nl/logo/banner-160x60.png)](https://nlnet.nl/project/Himalaya/index.html)

Special thanks to the
[nlnet](https://nlnet.nl/project/Himalaya/index.html) foundation that
helped Himalaya to receive financial support from the [NGI
Assure](https://www.ngi.eu/ngi-projects/ngi-assure/) program of the
European Commission in September, 2022.

## Sponsoring

[![github](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub%20Sponsors-fafbfc?logo=GitHub%20Sponsors&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/sponsors/soywod)
[![paypal](https://img.shields.io/badge/-PayPal-0079c1?logo=PayPal&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square)](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/soywod)
[![ko-fi](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Ko--fi-ff5e5a?logo=Ko-fi&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square)](https://ko-fi.com/soywod)
[![buy-me-a-coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Buy%20Me%20a%20Coffee-ffdd00?logo=Buy%20Me%20A%20Coffee&logoColor=000000&style=flat-square)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/soywod)
[![liberapay](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Liberapay-f6c915?logo=Liberapay&logoColor=222222&style=flat-square)](https://liberapay.com/soywod)
